.TH MO 1 "2026-07-21" "0.1.0" "Mo Manual"
.SH NAME
mo \- a simple Qt6 text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mo
[\fB\-\-new\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fIfile\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mo
is a multi-tab text editor built with Qt6 Widgets. It is designed to be
fast and lightweight while providing the features expected of a modern
code editor: syntax highlighting for 200+ languages via KSyntaxHighlighting,
automatic encoding detection via libuchardet, session restore, and a
find/replace dock. It runs natively on Wayland and does not depend on X11.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-new
Start with a single empty untitled tab instead of restoring the previous
session.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print the version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , \-\-help
Print a brief help message and exit.
.TP
.I file ...
One or more files to open in separate tabs. If a directory is given, its
immediate children are listed in a new tab instead.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/mo/mo.conf
User settings (window geometry, recent files, feature flags).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/mo/session.json
Session snapshot used for restore on the next startup.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B QT_QPA_PLATFORM
Overrides the Qt platform plugin. Set to
.B offscreen
for headless testing.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Overrides the location of the per-user configuration directory.
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME
Overrides the location of the per-user data directory.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs and feature requests at
.UR https://github.com/liudng/mo/issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHOR
.Liu Dong <liudng@hotmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR editor (1),
.BR nano (1)
